---
layout:     post
title:      "Food"
subtitle:   "We all love it. But does it love us?"
date:       2015-02-13 12:00:00
author:     "The Sandman"
header-img: "img/breakfast.jpg"
category:   "dreamcatcher"
---

<p>I just wanted to rant about something that I've noticed and that I'm guilty of. Eating. Food. Unfortunately, in the 21st century we've stopped really eating. To be honest, I can't even remember the last time I've eaten food. Actually it was a few months ago, for Ramadan. At this point I've been really vague and confusing. Especially since the last time I say I ate food was during a month that is known for NOT eating food.</p>

<p>Between then and now I've been shoving things in my mouth, moving my jaws, and swallowing. Not really eating at all. I was really watching TV, or listening to music, or having a conversation with a coworker, but not eating. It's been a while since I looked down at my plate, grabbed my food with my hands, and had an experience. An actual experience with my food.</p>

<p>Now let me tell you why I wanted to rant about this, because honestly who cares, as long as my stomach is full, I'm happy. Let me draw out how my usual lunch at work goes. I order some food online or on the phone, I don't really feel like waiting for my food. I make slow food, fast food. I go to the restuarant with my coworker, and depending on the day we eat in or we grab the food. I swipe my card, I don't remember the price on the menu, but sub-15 bucks, sounds good to me. Let's say we go back to the office for lunch. We go into the conference room and sit. Take all our food out, our phones, and our drinks. Right there. NON FOOD ITEM. My phone. Anyway, as I take out my food I respond to a few emails, avoid my boss' call, shoot out a text. Wait, at this point I'm already eating my chinese food, I just forgot to fit that in, my friend's last tweet was hilarious. Me and my coworker talk about stuff regarding work, or football, etc. And....that's it. 45 minutes later our conversation stalls, i've run out of tweets to favorite, and it seems like I ran out of food.</p>

<p>I swear the chinese place is not as filling as I thought it would be. 10 minutes later I'm back in my office and BOOM. I'm. So. Full. I have no clue what just happened but I overate, and I'm pretty sure I didn't eat anything at my desk besides that coffee from the morning. </p>

<p>Now let's look at my story. Of the 245 words I used to describe my lunch, I referenced food or my meal 13 times, and most of those words were just to remind you I was having lunch, not hanging out. It's sad, its kinda pathetic. I think this is the root of a lot of issues regarding overeating, obesity, unhapiness, and just really bad stomachaches. The image I just painted it a very common one, something that almost all of us do on a daily basis. And it really disconnects us from our sustenance.</p>

<p>Food has almost became a chore. Something we do cause our stomach starts yelling at us. So we decide to shove all we can to make it quiet down. The whole point of this is just to point out how we should connect ourselves with our food, spend time, cherish all the things that went into the plate on your table. Try eating with your hands. Try eating slower. Put away your phone. Love your food. It keeps you going.</p>