---
layout:     post
title:      "Control"
subtitle:   "Problems look mighty small from 150 miles up"
date:       2015-01-21 12:00:00
author:     "The Sandman"
header-img: "img/crashed-plane.jpg"
category:   "dreamcatcher"
---

<p>Control. Most of us love it, most of us want it. Whether it's in the form of getting a promotion to a managerial position, or if you just want to convince your friend to change the channel. We all like an element of control in all the things we do. Peter Sandman, a guy who talk A LOT about risk, sums it up, "Risks that you control are much less a source of outrage than risks that are out of your control". I've been living under this principle for much of my life. I have always found it so strange that so many people are afraid to fly, yet are completly comfortable speeding in their car or going to a grocery store. (the odds of the ceiling collapsing in a store is roughly the same as dying in a plane). 1 in a 11 million. Yet the phobia is so real. Even my own mom gets stirred up when a plane shakes a bit on take off, i'm just usually glad to be out of LGA terminal. But why are we so afraid of these things? Death? Loss of loved ones? Pain? Probably all of those.</p>

<p>However, I think being concsious and grateful can help alleviate some of the worry that comes into our lives. I usually cure stage fright by replacing it with amazement and gratitude. Wow, I'm getting the honor to speak in front of XYZ people. There's a religious scholar who I'm paraphrasing here, "To be ungrateful for one single blessing, is as if you were ungrateful for all blessing". To quickly show that. Stage fright or speaking in front of people or those people or speaking or brain or getting there, etc. etc. It can go on and on and on. But at some point you just realize that, hey I have nothing to lose. This is an opportunity for me to sieze. Oppurtunity. Every blessing we encounter is an oppurtunity. An oppurtunity to do something we may not have realized we are capable of.</p>

<p>Here's a phsycology experiment I tried on myself. In middle school I was thirsty. Someone offered me a bottle of water, Nestle. I told them, thanks a lot for the offer, but I don't like the taste of that water. First, i know, ungrateful. But, secondly, taste of the water. The kid started dying from laughter. Here I was telling him, that water didn't taste good. This moment left a very deep impact on me, I literally have spent my life convincing myself that other people taste water too. And the $5 price tag on Voss or SmartWater has done little to affirm that for me. Anyway, experiment, recently I have been putting in much more time in drinking water. I relish each sip with my tongue, and trace each gulp down. My drinking experience has transformed. Every time I quench my thirst I am infintely grateful. I've even started to become mesmerized by the water stream out of the fridge, I promise, I'm not crazy. But it's such a great feeling, I feel so connected to my water, something that has literally sustained my entire being for my entire life.</p>

<p>I can confidently say that I have not gone more than 12 hours without drinking water...unless I'm sleeping in, even then I have a bottle by my bed. I tend to forget that there are people in this world that go days without water, and even longer for clean water. They are the ones that should be fearful, for their lives, yet people with less tend to be the most grateful, cause they cherish each breath like I cherish each sip of my water...even though I still take water pretty much for granted. The point of this very long story and weird tangents is that when we are afraid of something, fearful, lost, confusedbe grateful. I'm not saying that people don't have hard times, everything is relative. But being optimistic and getting out of that ditch is a lot easier when you are thankful for the things you had, the things you have, and for the things you hope to have. Cause at the end of the day there is something we will NEVER completely have. Control.</p>