---
layout:     post
title:      "Knee-Jerk"
subtitle:   "Fighting nerve damage."
date:       2015-11-09 12:00:00
author:     "The Sandman"
header-img: "img/mirrors.jpg"
category:   "dreamcatcher"
---

<p>I want you to imagine going to a carnival. The laughter of the youthful, the whispers of the lovers, the screams of the excited. Walk into a house of mirrors. Surround yourself with yourself. Fat mirrors. Skinny mirrors. Tall mirrors. Short mirrors. All various forms of the same origin, different image.</p>

<p>Such is the same with self-reflection. Turning our mirrors inwards. The importance of self-reflection is beyond words. It doesn't have to be words written on a piece of paper or typed on a computer screen. All it is deliberation, contemplation, thinking, meditation.</p>

<p>We can uncover the nature of reflection by looking at its etymology. The word reflection is derived from Latin and French, reflexio and reflexion. If we trace back the Latin root it originates from the suffix reflexo-, which means bent back. Like reflex. When your doctor hits your knee the doctor expects a reflex, for you to bend back. To react. This whole test has also formed into its own phrase, 'the knee-jerk response'. The knee-jerk is done automatically, without thought.</p>

<p>The roots of reflecting teach us what we should do when reflecting; we should be responding. We have lost that art, we have become numb. If your doctor notices that you don't respond to getting whacked on the knee there's probably some kind of nerve damage. And that's exactly what we are facing, severe nerve damage. </p>

<p>On a daily basis we hear about chaos in the Middle East, rampant racism , endless poverty in Africa, etc. We can't help but become numb, for if we didn't, we would become  overwhelmed. But this numbness has entered into our daily lives. </p>

<p>Our lives have become automated schedules, we've become automatons, only imitating human beings. What is it that makes us distinct from all the other animals on the planet? It's our ability to think with a higher level of consciousness, so let's act that way. What's an easy way to break away from the monotony? Reflect. Look into your day. Look into the people you met. The places you went. The music you listened to. The list goes on.</p>