---
layout:     post
title:      "Verse 3:89"
subtitle:   "Revilization through forgiveness"
date:       2015-07-01 12:00:00
author:     "The Sandman"
header-img: "img/water-on-leaf.jpg"
category:   "quranic"
---

<h1 style="text-align:right">إِلاَّ الَّذِينَ تَابُوا مِنْ بَعْدِ ذَلِكَ وَأَصْلَحُوا فَإِنَّ اللَّهَ غَفُورٌ رَحِيمٌ</h1>

<blockquote>"Except for those who repent after that and correct themselves. For indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful."</blockquote>

<p>A refreshing cup of water is a symbol of relief and comfort all over the world. In famine, drought, and other calamities getting a glass of water can be difficult. And in some parts of the world natural disasters are the least of worries.</p>

<p>During Ramadan we are reminded of our human state of being and our need for worldly things, including a refreshing cup of water after a long and hot day. This ayah in the Quran is that refreshing cup of water.</p>

<p>The previous four ayat mention disbelievers and the unjust and how Allah will surely punish them without doubt, “…their chastisement shall not be lightened nor shall they be respited” (3:88). This should strike fear into our hearts, what if we are amongst those people. We can begin to feel the heat of the hell fire. But, Allah provides our glass of water, “Except those who repent, then surely Allah is Most Forgiving, Merciful”.</p>

<p>It’s simply amazing how Allah calms the soul of believers. More importantly Allah reminds us of our constant need to seek forgiveness, it’s the lifeline for someone who seeks a meaningful and just life. This ayah also reminds me of how forgiving we should be. If Allah is able to forgive those who associate with Him, surely I can forgive someone on more trivial matters. May God forgive.</p>