---
layout:     post
title:      "Fitting In"
subtitle:   "Why break the mold?"
date:       2015-10-25 12:00:00
author:     "The Sandman"
header-img: "img/moon.jpg"
category:   "dreamcatcher"
---

<p>In the past few years there have been many rare astronomical events. For example, the super blood moon. These rare events remind of us of the sheer amount of awesome that is out there in the universe. And being on planet Earth we only witness a molecule of awesome in the universe that is our home. These moments of awe and sheer amazement are beautiful. They remind us how small we are as singular humans in the universe. It is easy to forget the scale, leading to egos, arrogance, and outright ignorance. In moments of being right the world fades away and the only thing that stands is the idea that you alone are right. We are so quick to forget the other 7 billion humans and possible 7+ billion different opinions. Quick to forget how unimportant our actual opinion is.</p>

<p>Why does everyone thinks they are always the only one who is right and absolute? How does technology breed this type of arrogance and false righteous? Does social media help us connect different ideas or does it help us validate our own ideas? Is politics an outlet for people to think freely about social and economic issues? Do we learn to think in school or do we learn what to think?</p>

<p>These are all questions I don't know the answer to. There is no definite answer, life is far too nuanced for absolutes and extremes. That's why fundamentalist and extremist views invigorate people, but hardly ever last.</p>

<p>Back to the super blood moon. It's an astronomical event that will be viewable from Earth again 18 years from 2015. The simple fact is, some people who saw it in 2015 won't even be alive for it in 2033. Sorry guys. But what is even crazier is that this year, less than half the world was even in the viewable range too see the moon. And even crazier than that? Without the advent of modern astronomy and communication most people wouldn't know that the moon would be all funky. Imagine being in the middle of the Amazon rainforest. And randomly one night the moon goes from being this HUGE white ball, to disappearing, to this ball of FIRE, and then disappear again, and then reappearing. That sounds insane. Now that is pure awe. We now live in a world where even rare things are being more and more "normal". But why does that matter? Isn't it cool that we can learn so much? That's the clear pro, but what are the cons?</p>

<p>The biggest con is that we become so desensitized to most human faculties. Sadness? Too many deaths on the news. Happiness? Too many babies on my Facebook feed. All of these human emotions are taken and repeated hundreds of times each day on social media. It has become so easy to become numb to all these emotions and just block them out. The extremes of human emotions have become normal. But what does this have to do with the moon and what does this have to do with inflated ego?</p>

<p>When the extremes of our human experience become normalized nothing seems to amaze us anymore. Simple things should amaze us like the wind blowing through trees or ants crawling on the wall. Nature and the life around us has become scenery, only meant for our desktop wallpaper. This only accurately represents the position in our life that we give to the world around us, the back burner. And when we put the amazingness of the world behind us the only thing left standing is us. Me. My opinion, the way I think, my ideas, my views, my my my. That is the only thing that exists and the only thing that matters. There are so many other things in this world more important than myself. I have simply forgotten that because of the overload of information that computing has put at my fingertips.</p>

<p>Ok. The problem is that information is desensitizing my ability to experience awe which then leads me to becoming self-centered. It's too late to stop this, but how do I reverse the effects? I've tried a few things over the last months, some things are effective while others aren’t. If I learned anything at all it's that consistency and following through are both the most difficult thing to do AND most rewarding. So whether you keep a journal, or meditate, or take walks keep it up. It doesn't have to do be every day, but continually disconnect yourself from the influx of data and information and replace it with a bit of nature or a bit of human interaction or a bit of prayer. Our phones teach us that we are the center of the universe. Change that, change it often, change it consistently. And if you fall back into the cycle of normalcy realize it and then break out again. It's not easy, I still struggle with it on a day to day basis. All that matters is getting an A for effort.</p>
