---
layout:     post
title:      "The Devil's Advocate"
subtitle:   "And my case for him."
date:       2015-08-27 12:00:00
author:     "The Sandman"
header-img: "img/microphone.jpg"
---

<p>Asking questions is a fundamental method in which we learn and grow. Without asking questions it's quite difficult to reach answers, solutions, and analysis. Asking questions allow us to implore the paths less traveled and sparks our imagination in the pursuit of more knowledge. We see this in religion, academia, journalism, and our daily lives. Would Abraham find God if he didn't seek out the divine in everything around him? Would a student write a thesis paper if he didn't pose a question? Would a journalist chase down a lead if people didn't ask for the truth? Would you post your selfie on Instagram if you didn't want to know what people think about your makeup? These aren't absolutes regarding any one person, but rather, it just shows that questions drive a lot, if not everything, we do.</p>

<p>The way and place we ask our questions tells a lot about the answer we seek and a lot about ourselves as well. What would Google be if there wasn't a search box, no way to explore the insane amount of data the internet has interconnected? Google, as we know it, would be profitless if we weren't asking questions. Many make the same case that it is actually the questions that give us the knowledge, not the answer. Thomas Berger, author of Little Big Man, says, "The art and science of asking questions is the source of all knowledge". If knowledge is held by the internet, then Google has mastered the art and science of asking it. If knowledge is held by God, then Abraham has mastered the art and science of asking it. If knowledge is held by Instagram followers, then teenage girls have mastered the art and science of asking it. Mastery of question asking seems to be the ultimate goal. But how is such a lofty goal attainable? The more questions we ask, the more knowledge we uncover?</p>

<p>Many of us learn in school that there are no dumb questions, let your mind run wild, ask anything and everything you can imagine. My science teacher in school even recommended that we turn to Google for our answers, because her knowledge was too finite. If that is the case, then perhaps, the most knowledgeable of all is the Devil's advocate. His army of ceaseless questions and insatiable curiosity marks the greatest source of knowledge. James Stephens, a beautiful Irish poet, has said, "We get wise by asking questions, and even if these are not answered, we get wise..." Many times we scoff at people who assume the role of the Devil's advocate, assume they are asking heedless questions for no legitimate reason at all. Is the negative connotation behind being the Devil's advocate justifiable? There's no better place to look for an answer than the Devil himself.</p>

<p>Why was it that the Devil was cast off to the deepest pits of Hell? Some say, it's because he asked just the wrong question, how is Man better than I. Clearly that question got him in a lot of heat. Why would God reprimand him for asking a question, or two, or any number? If God is the source of all knowledge, the Devil was merely trying to acquire more, and as previously mentioned, questions are the key to knowledge. But it is in this exchange with God and the Devil that we learn the real source of knowledge: meaningful, structured, and well-purposed questions.</p>

<p>The Devil and his advocates are like the one Khalil Gibran describes The Prophet, “Is not dread of thirst when your well is full, thirst that is unquenchable?” The Devil’s advocate has an unquenchable thirst, never satisfied. That is because the Devil isn't the source of all knowledge, so the Devil's advocate has simply mastered the art and science of asking a fallible source. The Devil was disillusioned by his own ego and desire to be greater than all creation. The same illusion that cast him out of the heavens.</p>

<p>To complete the quote by James Stephens, "...for a well-packed question carries its answer on its back as a snail carries its shell." Stephens highlights a very important characteristic of the type of questions that lead to knowledge, well-packed. One must learn the art and science of asking questions, and it isn't simply barraging someone with them. A question that isn’t well-packed becomes burdensome, not protective like a snail’s shell. If a snail moves into a shell too large it won’t be able to move around and will be weighed down by an ill-fitting home. And if a snail moves into a shell too small, it’s uncomfortable and leaves itself exposed. Such is the nature of questioning, we do not want to burden ourselves with pointless questions, nor do we want to settle for mediocrity by not asking enough or the right questions. But who are these people who have mastered this art, people who ask questions for the purpose of growth, truth, knowledge, and purpose?</p>

<p>Some of the best people we can turn to are those who ask questions with sincerity and the desire to seek knowledge. Abraham sought to find God, and God rushed to him and found him. He asked the right questions, that's why many consider him to be the Father of monotheism. But he asks questions, the Devil asked questions, what's the difference still? It is the intention behind the question. A Devil's advocate seeks to put another person between a rock and a hard place, force them into a corner where they question themselves. A master of questioning asks to answer a question they have posed to themselves. It is through self-reflection that they find pure questions, even if the question is "basic" in nature.</p>

<p>By looking around us we should pose questions, submerging yourself in nature is sometimes the easiest way to become awestruck with the beauty of the world and its sheer magnificence. Sometimes we need to push away the veil of familiarity to truly soak in what we have classified as normality. For example, birds. Most of the time we do not see the magnificence of nature when shooing away pigeons as we walk through downtown New York. But when we see a massive Ostrich at the Central Park Zoo, we are astounded. Isn't the pigeon just as amazing as the Ostrich, the latter can't even fly. It is easy to forget the value of things we become familiar to, that is why it is important to drop familiarity and experience the world anew sometimes, it is the only way Abraham questioned the norms of society.</p>

<p>But isn't that what the Devil did as well? Just question the norm. And so, we delve into the etiquette of asking questions, for every art can be perfected and every science tested. We've already touched on the importance of sincerity when asking and what our end goal should be, and how the Devil's advocate tends to have nothing to do with either. To ask a question to debase someone else is the complete opposite of that.</p>

<p>There are many cases in the life of the Muhammad (peace be upon him) where his companions proclaimed their belief and satisfaction with God, the Prophet (pbuh), and Islam. Many times it was when people were asking questions to the Prophet (pbuh). Their proclamation was a revisit, renewal, and realignment of their intention, lest they forget the truth and start to doubt it. Such is the danger of the Devil's advocate, becoming disillusioned by the trickery of the Devil himself. That is why it is important to always ask someone who is qualified to answer the question, otherwise you may leave with more misleading questions than guiding answers.</p>

<p>Grand thinker Al-Ghazali warns us of the evils of debates, envy, pride, rancor, backbiting, inflation of one's ego, suspicion, rejection of truth, and deception. When we put ourselves in the shoes of the Devil's advocate we bring ourselves face to face with these things. That's why we should always revisit, renew, and realign our intentions with those of great questioners. And perhaps become, not the Devil's, but God's Advocate.</p>